# Assessing replication of evolutionarily stable strategies in multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) models
Game theory is an area of study surrounding the mathematical modelling of human behavior through the creation of scenarios in which the most rational outcome can be determined computationally. It revolves around the evaluation of strategies and their associated payoffs to determine what each "player" is most likely to do based on the potential reward from a given action. Evolutionary game theory is built on a similar principle, studying rationale and decision-making from a standpoint of natural selection and its role in the biological development of decision-making capabilities in various species. Evolutionary game theory models can simulate various behavior scenarios, such as species competition, the formation of dominance hierarchies, or male animals seeking mates. This project seeks to use payoff matrices that correspond to these models to calculate evolutionarily stable strategies (ESS): strategies that, once most members of a population adopt them, cannot be subverted by a small group of "mutants" adopting a different strategy. The project seeks to examine whether a "population" produced by a neural network can reproduce an ESS when faced with evolutionary game theory scenarios. Various evolutionary game theory scenarios (such as the Hawk-Dove game) will be programmed into a multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) model in order to determine the level of similarity that a "population" (as measured by a sample of outputs) has with the mathematically determined ESS and calculate the difference between the expected responses and the digitally produced ones.

## Motivation
The development of artificial intelligence has brought about its increasing use in healthcare, policy, law enforcement, etc. as a replacement for human decision-making. AI models have demonstrated a seemingly advanced level of reasoning ability in comparison to humans, begging the question of whether the development of AI can demonstrate evolved instics and lead to a form or further evolution towards higher-order thinking. This project will assess whether programmed neural networks share the evolutionary basis on which intellect has developed in order to determine the capability of AI to imitate biological neural processes. Species possess an evolutionarily gained reasoning ability that I hypothesize AI may lack due to its emphasis on pattern recognition over insticts that often emerge in evolved species such as those related to social interaction, psychology, intuition, and survival. This project will in turn assess whether AI can be a meaningful tool in studying human behavior and neurological processes.
